---
title: WPD:Editorial Flags
---
<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Flags_and_editorial_notes">Flags and editorial notes</span></h1>
<p>WPD uses a system of flags and editorial notes to keep track of areas where improvements are required. 
</p><p>Flags are high-level labels on a page the help us find pages that require some class of work, like new examples or grammar help. They display at the top of the page in a prominent way for logged-in users, but also show for logged-out users. Most content pages have a space for them, and when you go to edit a form you'll find that they're shown as a long list of checkboxes. Most flags are toggled by hand, although some are set automatically by some templates. You can find more about each flag at <a href="/wiki/WPD:Flags" title="WPD:Flags">WPD:Flags</a>, including guidelines on what they mean, when they should be used, and perhaps most importantly, when they can be <i>removed</i> from content. 
</p><p>Editorial notes, by default, don't show up for users who are not logged-in. They are meant to allow editors to leave tactical notes to one another about specific work that needs to be done to improve the page. They often go hand-in-hand with flags. For example, the page might be flagged with "Examples do not follow best practices", and within the page the examples an editorial note might show up next to the specific example that needs work describing precisely which best practices it doesn't follow.  Each of the sub-pages of <a href="/wiki/WPD:Flags" title="WPD:Flags">WPD:Flags</a> describes which Editorial notes to use in conjunction with which flags and why. Most editorial notes are simple "sub-classes" of the basic <a href="/wiki/Template:Editorial" title="Template:Editorial">editorial note template</a>.
</p><p>Editors can provide a lot of value by merely making sure that pages have the correct flags and editorial notes set. This makes it so that other editors can easily come along and find and accomplish specific improvements, focusing their attention on the spots that need the most help.
</p>
<!-- Saved in parser cache with key wpwiki:pcache:idhash:2010-0!*!0!*!*!*!*!esi=1 and timestamp 20150731182703 and revision id 7382
 -->
