'''This is a temporary page to pull together an example of what the ideal end state will be. This has been written by [http://webplatform.org/docs/User:Cmills Chris Mills] to serve as a sample.'''

=The <p> element =

==Summary==
A brief summary--a few sentences at most--that describes the element. Remember that the summary will likely be extracted and used out of context. Use the element name liberally to increase SEO.

<code>&lt;p&gt;</code> — the paragraph element — is used to mark up a single paragraph in a given body of content. Wrapping content in paragraph tags will generally cause that content all to be rendered in a single block, with a margin above and below.

==Usage Context==

{|class="wikitable"
| Categories
| Paragraphs are phrasing content according to HTML5's definitions. It is also known to be a block level elements, under the earlier HTML definitions.
|-
| Permitted contents
| Text, or any inline or text-containing flow content, such as <code>&lt;a&gt;</code>, <code>&lt;em&gt;</code>, <code>&lt;strong&gt;</code> or <code>&lt;q&gt;</code>.
|-
| Tag Omission
| None — the start and end tags are mandatory.
|-
| Permitted Parent Elements
| Any element that can contain flow content, typically content sectioning elements such as <code>&lt;article&gt;</code>, <code>&lt;div&gt;</code> or <code>&lt;blockquote&gt;</code>
|-
| Permitted Child Elements
| '''Chris - I don't think this is needed, as well as the permitted content, which I have renamed slightly to "permitted contents"'''
|}

==DOM Information==

===DOM Interface===

The <p>, or paragraph element implements the [[http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article HTMLAudioElement]HTMLParagraphElement] interface.

===Inheritance Hierarchy===
:[http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article Node]
::[http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article Element]
:::[http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article HTMLElement]
::::[http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article HTMLParentElement]

'''Chris - not sure if this is needed?'''

==Members==

'''''Implementation Note'' The Members tables are autogenerated. The Events, Methods, and Properties tables are collapsed, until a user expands them.'''

[Attributes]
[Events]
[Methods]
[Properties]

===Attributes===
Like all other HTML elements, this element supports the [http://webplatform.org/docs/WPD:CSS_Example_Article global attributes. Attribute particular to this element are as follows:

*;<code>align</code>: The paragraph element <code>align</code> attribute can be given values of <code>left</code>, <code>right</code>, <code>center</code> or <code>justify</code>, to align the content inside the paragraph. But please note that this is a presentational attribute, now deprecated in HTML5.

''The best practice would be to align your text using the CSS <code>text-align</code> property instead.''


==Examples==

<pre><code>&lt;p&gt;This is one paragraph of content.

&lt;p&gt;This is another paragraph of content. See how it appears below the last paragraph on a new line.

&lt;p&gt;This is a paragraph of content inside a blockquote.</code></pre>


'''Chris - I don't think we need to show JS and CSS examples affecting simple HTML content. I think this just muddies the waters a bit, for people trying to learn these basic rudiments.'''

[[HTML/examples | View live examples]]
<syntaxhighlight>
A useful HTML example that shows the element in context.
</syntaxhighlight>

<syntaxhighlight>
//LANGUAGE-TAG: JavaScript
A useful JavaScript example that calls to the element.
</syntaxhighlight>

==Best practices==

* As said above, you should not align content with the <code>&lt;p&gt;</code> element's <code>align</code> attribute. Use the CSS <code>text-align</code> property instead.
* You should separate all paragraphs out by wrapping each of them in their own unique <code>&lt;p&gt;</code> element. Do not separate out paragraphs by other means, such as wrappign all your content in a <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> element, or using multiple <code>&lt;br &gt;</code>tags.
* To alter the position or spacing of your paragraphs, dop not use presentational HTML; use appropriate CSS such as <code>padding</code> and <code>margin</code>.

'''Chris - I've delete a lot of the sections from here, as I thought they were a bit repetitious. I thought "Best practices" would help to encompass all the good examples of usage and other things not said in other sections.

==Specifications==


{| class="wikitable"
! Specification
! Status
! Relevant changes
|-
| [http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/spec.html HTML5]
| Last Call Working Draft
| No change
|-
| [http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-html401-19991224/ HTML 4.01]
| Recommedation
| Introduced
|}

==Browser Compatibility==

===Desktop===
<div id="compat-desktop">
  <table class="compat-table">
       <tr>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Chrome</th>
        <th>Firefox (Gecko)</th>
        <th>Internet Explorer</th>
        <th>Opera</th>
        <th>Safari</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Basic support</td>
        <td>5.0<br/>4.0 <span style='border:1px solid black; padding:2px'>-webkit</span></td>
        <td>{{ CompatGeckoDesktop("1") }}</td>
        <td>5.5</td>
        <td>7.0</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
  </table>
</div>

'''''Implementation Note:''' The prefix tag (here, a fake value just to show it off) would be a link to the concept of prefixes.''

===Mobile===
<div id="compat-mobile">
  <table class="compat-table">
      <tr>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Android</th>
        <th>Firefox Mobile (Gecko)</th>
        <th>IE Phone</th>
        <th>Opera Mobile</th>
        <th>Safari Mobile</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Basic support</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
        <td>{{ CompatGeckoMobile("1") }}</td>
        <td>6.0</td>
        <td>6.0</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
  </table>
</div>


===Compatibility Notes===

{| class="wikitable"
! Browser
! Version
! Note
|-
| Internet Explorer
| 6 
| Introduced
|-
| Opera
| 4
| Introduced, with the following variant: blah, blah, blah.
|}

==See Also==
====Tutorials and Guides====
-----
A list of relevant tutorials and other conceptual materials

====Reference====
-----
A list of related elements, methods, etc.


<details>
	<summary>This article contains content originally from external sources, including ones licensed under the CC-BY-SA license.</summary>
	<div>
		Portions of this content copyright 2012 Mozilla Contributors. This article contains work licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike License v2.5 or later. The original work is available at Mozilla Developer Network:
<a href="http://developer.mozilla.org/foo" target="_blank">Foo</a>
	</div>
	<div>
		Portions of this content come from Foo.org: <a href="http://foo.org/baz" target="_blank">Baz</a>
	</div>
</details>